all right what's up everybody Welcome to
the inaugural episode of startup Theory
I'm excited you guys for joining us I
want to be very clear that this is beta
we are uh doing this for the very first
time I guess for those who don't know
what the word inaugural means uh so yeah
welcome what we're going to be doing is
showcasing a company and if this is
something that you guys are interested
in having your company showcased you can
submit Jared where do they submit at
connect connect at impact theory.com so
you can go there you can submit your
business we have a questionnaire uh that
we will send you and um from that we
will build this episode so today we are
um diving into a company called Iris it
is an iOS um application and yeah we're
going to dive in and talk about what it
takes to actually start and found a
company I want you guys to be involved
here so be sure to engage ask questions
if there's something that I say that
you're clear about uh then be sure to
let us know and we should I believe have
at least one of the founders here of the
company with us uh I'm getting the nod
from agent Smith what's that Jose is on
all right Jose Ramos if I'm not mistaken
has joined us from Iris so welcome
welcome Jose all right
so I have uh I have my notes here um so
what iris is is um and actually before
we get into the specifics of this I want
to um talk through exactly what um
startup theory is going to be so first
of all we are going to be um taking the
companies that are submitted to us we
will pick the ones that we think have
the most universal appeal um these are
not necessarily companies that um we'll
be getting involved with this is just
companies from the community that have
been submitted um we may take companies
that uh we love and think are amazing we
may take companies that we actually
don't think um will work but we think
that they might be a great learning
example and everything in between so um
know that um in featuring somebody here
that is not a tacit approval of the
business it's not impact Theory putting
a stamp on it me putting my stamp on it
um it's just us believing that we can
bring some value to you guys um through
the exercise of going through it
answering the questions that they have
um and answering your questions so
without further Ado um why don't we dive
in so this is um an application that is
designed to be a go-to resource for the
latest updates and news on your
particular
interests and it's being put together by
a a combination of cousins brothers and
good friends they are designers
Engineers marketers product managers
lawyers and Hustlers uh one of them is
in New York City and the rest and there
are six of them total are in Puerto Rico
um some of the things that um the any
whenever you're starting a business one
of the the main things you have to
figure out is what is the problem that
you're going to solve and that that
really is the starting point of any
business um so if you think about impact
Theory they're sort of the grand Global
problem that we're trying to solve um of
believing that we're a society that
makes really amazing mythology but we
don't know how to interpret that
mythology um but that that just is not
granular enough that is not a problem
that people are beating down our door
and saying that um we need to solve that
so what we're trying to do is attack the
much more tangible problem of there are
a lot of people out there that want to
start businesses they don't know how uh
and so we want to help incubate those
companies so when people ask us what
we're doing um the answer is that we
incubate companies and content because
that is a need that people have they
want to bring something to the world um
and they don't know how to do it and so
it's very easy to put our finger on that
um like this as soon as we put out into
the world that we were looking for
people to submit um to Startup Theory
you know we had a bunch of people
submitting so uh there's clearly a need
for that what we're then trying to do
for us there's the secondary mission of
making sure that it's the companies that
we ultimately get behind and really do
put and promote and incubate and help
turn into something for us there's a
secondary amount of criteria which is
they have to be uh Mission based it has
to be something that we believe is going
to make the world a better place um and
that is important to us and hey you guys
are on the Move uh and one of the things
um that is always fun to do in this
content is to pretend that there aren't
all these crazy things happening just
off camera that you guys don't see um so
that's a a big thing you've got to
identify what is a problem that you're
trying to solve is it a problem that is
readily apparent uh you know going back
to what we did at Quest Nutrition um
another case right so people want uh to
um live a healthier life but at the same
time they want to eat food that's really
tasty so we were trying to make a um
line up of food that people could choose
based on taste and happen to be good for
them so that was a problem that we were
trying to solve convenience was a big
part of the game um and being able to
actually solve that problem and meet
that need is is really how you build a
business so one of the first things that
um the team at iris is going to have to
answer is what exactly is the problem
that they're trying to solve so the way
that they put it is the world is um
deling us with information there's so
much news there's so much fake news
there's so many things out there uh so
much noise that you really um need a way
to cut through the Clutter and their
proposal is to address that problem by
um essentially mechanical turking it and
for those of you who don't know what a
Mechanical Turk is it's actually a human
being um despite uh what you might think
from the name it's a human being that
actually goes through and um throws
human capital at the problem and so
that's their proposed solution is that
they're going to have real people that
are going to do a digest for you based
on your interests um it's an iOS
application I believe I mentioned that
at the beginning uh but that iOS
application is going to be fed by real
people who take your interests uh they
go through they um condense it down and
they give you a 5 to 10 minute um
audible recording of all of the items in
your interest category that that are
distilled down um so I I'm that is I
think where we really need to start so
um I'd be uh very interested to hear
what you guys think and I'll give you a
brief thumbnail sketch of where my
head's at and then um hopefully we have
some comments and questions uh so first
and foremost I think that the problem of
there being a lot of noise out in the
world is um is very real I think that
there is a ton of that I think there are
so many um amazing pieces of content but
they're hiding being out there in the
Deluge of uh noise and and not just with
fake news but also just that um there's
a lot of people creating content that
isn't very good and so how do you
isolate and identify the content that
actually is going to um serve your needs
and uh so they I think they've put their
um finger on a problem I don't know that
it's a ram is burning problem and my big
concern is that there's going to be
there already are a lot of players in
the space but my my big fear and um I
will put this out there to Jose and I
want to know uh what he thinks I want to
know what you guys think um do you think
that you're going to run into a problem
of
scalability
scalability and while those answers come
in I will tell you that um building a
big business is not always the name of
the game and I definitely have a natural
bias and my bias is very very much about
scale I am only interested in things
that scale and so I'm always looking at
businesses from the perspective of how
do we make this big so um if you're
submitting to us guys I will warn you
that I'm always going to come at it from
that perspective I think it takes the
same amount of energy to build a small
business as it does to build a big
business and whether you're doing um a
neighborhood restaurant that's meant to
serve you know the people in your
surrounding area or you're trying to
change the very nature of food I
actually think it's irrelevant from an
energy expenditure standpoint um so for
me uh scalability is a huge huge thing
and every alarm Bell that I have um guys
at Iris went off as I was reading your
um your breakdown because you're relying
ultimately on human capital now um the
one thing to be very very careful of if
your business relies on human capital
that it is going to be very Capital
intensive to grow that because for every
um you know if you guys are doing this
let's say that um any one person can do
a digest for I don't know let's call it
three interests um even that like that's
actually quite a bit if you're really
going to create value in your breakdown
so if every one employee can handle
three interests for you to scale the
number of interests that you have
available to your community you're going
to have to scale the people now scaling
people comes at a cost and now you're um
really putting yourself out there and
one thing and when I say putting
yourself out there I mean putting
yourself out there from a financial
standpoint um one of the things people
don't often think about um is so even if
you were to do all of this with outsourc
employees Outsource employees have one
problem which is that their availability
tends to wax and Wayne sometimes they
available sometimes or not also that you
train somebody but they're very
transient so all of that energy and
effort that you put into training them
which could take months for them to get
really good um at the job is one you're
dealing with subpar uh work while they
get up to speed and then two um they
don't work for you full-time there's a
lack of investment they're probably
outsourced because they don't physically
live where you live so you may be
Outsourcing overseas and if you're
Outsourcing overseas then your turnover
rate is going to be very very high uh so
now you're putting all of this time
energy into TR training people only to
have them um then disappear and you have
to redo it again you're getting sub
quality work uh while they get up to
speed and and of course you're training
them and making them good at their job
which in theory makes them much more
marketable which makes them more likely
to go somewhere else uh to get more
money um and in today's economy usually
the fastest way to raise your salary is
to move to a different company so you
put yourself into this vicious cycle
where the more valuable you make that
person the more likely they are to leave
you and now you have a problem now
that's why I like to have the majority
of my employees in-house because then I
can invest in them as people um I can
show them that I care about them we can
build real connection real Rapport um if
you do what we're doing at impact Theory
which is every full-time employee here
has ownership in the company uh so now
being a part of it um they're
financially invested in making sure that
the company takes off that it does well
to think beyond the scope of their job
so but now if you're doing that you're
bringing people in um whether or not you
give them equity in the company as
somewhat irrelevant but if you bring
them in it's better long term the more
you invest in them the more likely they
are to stay assuming that you have good
leadership and that they feel good about
working for your company but the problem
is that now not only do you have payroll
and that payroll stays man no matter
what like you can't sometimes like an
Outsource worker you can pay them um a
little bit you know if you only use them
for a few hours or you can pay them a
lot if you're working them a lot of
hours but a full-time employee um is
you're paying them no matter what now we
have a a Founder input put fire away so
in response to scalability Jose says
that's part of the challenge we'll be
facing the way we see it is similar to
how newspapers work today where you'd
have a team per section slin but then
only a few would do the recording we
definitely believe in having everything
in house though especially since content
will be the driving Factor okay so if
you guys couldn't hear that um that was
Jose Ramos who is one of the founders of
the company and what he's saying is that
they really do believe in bringing
people inhouse um that's model that they
wanted to use and they believe that um
just like in the newspaper business um
that you would bring people on it would
have to scale the more interest the more
people that you would need uh but that
there would only be one person recording
I'm assuming per
interest um which that's fine um I think
that that still your problem is going to
be exactly the problem that the um
newspaper industry had and which is why
they were so right for disruption um
anybody that comes along with technology
like think about Facebook which is out
there scanning everything that's being
written it can um basically create
digest algorithmically and then present
that and that's one of the ways that the
newspaper industry has been disrupted
and if you're doing if you're so
patterning after what my friend Sony
morai calls a dinosaur business um a
business that is using Legacy technology
Legacy ways of looking at the world um
you you're building into your business
model the same inherent weaknesses that
make them a dinosaur so you really
really have to careful um I like to play
the game and and I'll I'll tie this to
um scalability I like to play the game
no what would it take so um
rather than Heckle the businesses that
are kind enough to submit um what I want
to do is really think through okay if
this were my business model If This Were
the problem that I were going to solve
what would I do in order to effectively
tackle it now you guys may not be
interested um meaning the founders of
the company this may make it
uninteresting for you it may no longer
scratch the itch but it is I think um
the answer to to what you would need to
do if if this is really the problem that
you want to solve so um here's what I
think you the the core of your company
would have to be to avoid um getting
into the escalating arms race of always
uh the more subjects you bring on the
more people that you have to bring on
with you because um and this is why I
think that it doesn't scale as well as
as the newspaper so back in the days
when newspaper um was the dominant way
that we got our media people only knew
what made the newspaper that was it
right so it was your job to go out and
scour the world to know what the topics
were to what headlines would sell uh to
be aware of the things happening in the
world but now there's so much
information that there's going to be so
many subcategories and one of the ways
that people cut through the noise and
and thinking about this you know for
myself particularly is to get really
granular in the subjects that you pay
attention to so you don't pay attention
to marketing you pay attention to social
marketing or you pay attention to um
social entrepreneurship right so these
subcategories and getting into
subcategories I think is going to be one
of the most potent things you're going
to have to do in order to really tap
into um the interest that people have to
keep them engaged so that they're not
listening to a five or 10-minute digest
on this gigantic universe that in trying
to boil down to five or 10 minutes
you're really really skimming across the
broadest portion of the surface Because
unless your subjects are really granular
that's what you're going to have to do
right so while you're pulling the best
of the best of marketing if you're only
get giving me 5 to 10 minutes and all I
really care about is social media
marketing uh but you're going into
analytics and things like that um then
I'm going to be frustrated because
you're not really getting into the
things that I care about so now you have
to have a granular level of subjects
which you can do but you're going to
have to throw a lot of human capital at
it so for every number of um you know
subcategories you've got an additional x
amount of people uh which carries with
it not only the the payroll which is
always going to be consistent but you
also have uh payroll tax so in
California at least you can assume that
for whatever the salary is that you
offer to somebody that you're going to
be paying about
1.3 times that salary um to cover
insurance to cover um workman's
compensation things like that so
employees um you know bring the the
capital cost of the business way up um
and then you're going to be competing so
you're going to be competing with other
companies um on the high quality High
Caliber Talent you're going to want to
pay in you know go you're going to want
to be in like the 70 or higher
percentile um otherwise it's just simple
math for people to realize that they
should probably uh go somewhere else
where they're being more um handsomely
financially compensated so I think the
name of the game with this particular
business is going to be algorithm
algorithm algorithm and what you guys
are going to have to get very very
clever at is an algorithm that finds the
things that people are really interested
in on an individual basis so one while
it's going to be hard to do it's
infinitely scalable and no matter how
many people you throw at an algorithm as
long as you have the server bandwidth in
these days with um you know Amazon um
web services you can really like that's
almost a a non- entity you don't even
really have to think about that um that
is no longer a big part of the expense
structure so you'll be able to get the
um the Cycles CPU cycles that you need
to Crunch the data but the really
important part is going to be watching
my behavior um understanding what I want
to see before I understand it and that
is the critical part and that is where
technology is moving is really going
into um an algorithmic or an algorithm
driven um way of identifying what
somebody's interested so if you guys wa
if you guys listen to Spotify I think
they do a really good job of this they
pay attention to the music that I listen
to and then they make suggestions every
week based on the things that I've been
favoring that week so it's real time um
it's very broadspectrum it's you know
crawling basically all music types um
and then it adjusts its algorithm as I
like if I um add something to a playlist
or I skip something all that goes into
informing the algorithm and then what I
want to listen to next same thing with
Amazon right people that like this also
like this um so giving uh uh just a
massive massive amount of customization
is is absolutely critical all right so
algorithm I think is the name of the
game any questions there all right so
moving on to some of the things that
they wanted to cover um how much of the
company should we be able to um should
we be willing to give up for investment
money um so typical is going to be 10 to
20% um and and I I'm flexible on that I
don't think that that is as important as
um bringing people in so whatever you
need to do to get the High Caliber
talent that you need is the real answer
to that and the thing I think a lot of
um startup entrepreneurs struggle with
is is you know giving something up
giving a piece of that pie away and what
people don't really understand is that
it's way better to have 1% of a billion
dollar company than it is to have 100%
of you know um a $10,000 company so it
really comes down to what the scale is
you need to um do whatever it is that
you need to do to attract the talent
that you need to make this uh winning
proposition but 10 to 20% is typical so
um if I were you guys I would set aside
um 10% immediately for your first wave
of employees and I would hold back 10%
for employees that come along down the
road um and then also one thing to
consider is um varying the amount of
equity that you give someone based on
the percentage of the salary um that
you're offering for that position that
they take so um if somebody's willing to
take less money um in their upfront
salary then you can give them more on
the back end but if somebody wants their
full boat salary um then you would
typically dial back the amount of equity
that you would give them because Equity
is really a game of Risk and reward so
for those that are willing to take the
bigger risk then they're going to get
the bigger reward for people that are
taking a smaller risk then they're going
to get the smaller reward um and
typically obviously the people that are
putting in the capital um they're going
to um get the Lion Share of the money um
you know obviously unless you're the
founder um one thing to keep in mind is
is control so one thing you want to be
very very careful of and you guys have
six maybe seven depending on how this is
worded I'm actually not sure if it's six
or seven total people in the company um
but you need to be very very careful at
what point you give up so much control
that somebody else could come in and
control your company um which look in
the beginning it's really not a big
concern and as long as you um with it
becomes tough because if there's seven
of you that 51% that you need to
maintain control of the company can very
quickly uh fracture and then you guys
could run into a problem where you start
voting against each other not things I'd
worry about in the beginning and hey a
failed business here or there because
the partnership could agree it's not the
end of the world um and and in the early
days man just move fast that that really
is the key don't get hung up on
contracts when there's nothing to fight
over don't fight that's my U that's my
motto um so but yeah um being willing to
give up Equity especially in the
beginning is not something that should
make you tense uh give it away to
attract people and the only real thing
on that is looking forward to make sure
that you have enough for future
employees and then control um okay is
investment funding the right track that
is impossible to answer um that is a
case-by case basis so I'm not a big fan
of raising capital and the reason that
I'm not a big fan of raising capital is
typically uh Capital comes with strings
hey um and one of the things that we're
doing as a model here at impact theory
is um first of all we don't take cash
from people we're a pure Equity play um
and that until I should say phase one is
is a pure Equity play and then if we go
deeper uh may involve raising Capital
down the line um but we're um particular
to raising smaller amounts of capital
we're looking for minority Partners um
and that's just because going back to
control and the reason is I think a
business is very much like um artistic
expression in the way that you're going
to make counterintuitive decisions you
may Zig when other people are zagging
and that's the very thing that makes
your comfort your company valuable right
disruption happens because you see
something that other people don't see
um and going to somebody to raise
Capital um can put you in a position
where you can clearly see the future
that you're trying to bring about and
they're just not willing to go for it
and if they have a large enough stake in
your company that they can influence
that then you're really in trouble also
I think that um lots of money in the
beginning uh creates really bad habits
and I think that being a lean mean
startup in the beginning is um just
incredibly incredibly important uh I
won't say important it's incredibly
valuable because it's going to force you
to really really think about how you're
spending your money uh invest a dollar
you should expect to get $2
back thank you for bearing with me while
I have a sip of tasty
beverage so yeah that is um really a
critical point is you want to think
through um being able to build the
company the way that you want um the the
nice thing about capital and and a
fundamental question that you guys
should be asking usually capital is
attached to somebody that has
relationships and if those relationships
are worth the investment meaning that
you would do the investment just for the
relationships and that um even if it
didn't carry with it any economic value
you weren't getting any money out of the
investment um that you would still do it
that is when you know that it's probably
a good move um if there's somebody that
has deep industry experience in the
industry that you're going into um that
is incredibly valuable and one question
to ask um is who who else have they
invested in and then go to the people
that they've invested in and ask them if
you had to do it all over again and you
weren't going to get any money out of
the deal you were just going to get
their relationships and their advice
would you still do the deal if the
answer is no then you might want to
really think long and hard about it um
and if the answer is yes then you know
that's a that's a really exciting answer
and a potentially great partnership and
that's always been the the thing um for
me that has always been the most
interesting is are they going to
understand my space are they going to be
able to offer me guidance can they
Mentor um have they been through some of
the things that I've been through before
um are they going to be a great sounding
board and what are they going to be like
when we don't agree and that's really
really important and that's uh another
reason why or the fundamental reason why
I should say um that I like small
Investments over big Investments and
then look nine times out of 10 or 99
times out of 100 I should say you can
throw just hard work at the problem
being smarter than the next people U
being more Savvy about the way that
you're solving the problem looking for
opportunities to disrupt I'm actually
read reading a book right now called
disrupt you um I'm forgetting the
author's name right
now J samit J samit Cindy to the rescue
uh so J samit disrupt you great book
talks a lot about how to deconstruct
your own personality your own skill set
to look for opportunities in the market
where you can go and disrupt technology
is moving so fast uh really is a great
opportunity all right so um will the
minimum viable product give us the
answers we are looking for namely uh we
write the content we record the
audio um if uh Jose if you're there if
you can give me uh Clarity on what you
mean by will it answer those questions
um I'll pretend for a second that you're
referring to scalability since that is
uh the the thing that really rings in my
mind um and I think that it will answer
that question I think you will see very
very quickly that that is not a scalable
Endeavor without a massive amount of
capital um so yeah I think uh I think
that that getting a minimum viable
product out there is always a good idea
um don't wait until it's perfect like
gets like this right so this is a a beta
version we've never done this um content
before we'll get your guys' feedback
we'll adjust and you know we'll keep
doing that for a while until it really
becomes streamlined um and one thing
that I think we already know we need to
do is we need to have like a Skype uh
connection to the entrepreneurs behind
the business so we can get answers in
real time um so um yeah says what we
mean by that is if users don't enjoy it
for example is it because the content
isn't good because we did it ourselves
because the idea itself isn't there I
see um so he's saying will we get the
feedback meaning is the product itself
bad and the idea is good or is the idea
itself bad and no matter how good we
make the product it's just a bad idea um
I think depending on um how the minimum
viable product comes out you may or may
not answer that question um but building
up the community getting feedback um
will be critical listening to that early
feedback um is is just is so so valuable
so I think that um regardless of whether
that particular question gets answered
the concept of a minimum viable product
getting out into the market getting
early feedback um adjusting and being
Nimble that that's the name of the game
so definitely definitely definitely you
guys should get U an MVP out there and
and see what happens um it also help you
work through the Kinks there's I'm sure
a million things you're not thinking
about with writing the content recording
it um how much it's going to cost you
probably have uh an estimate but um
whether it it actually comes out that
way is you know almost certainly not
okay how can we make the jump to
full-time as soon as possible um that
comes down to your personal finances and
I don't think that you should be
necessarily looking to make the jump to
full-time as soon as possible people
usually only spend 50% of their waking
hours at their job uh so that leaves a
full 50% for you guys to do your side
hustle and will give you a chance to um
really find out without the massive
stress and pressure of having to build
something having to monetize it and
maybe that's the most important thing
like a lot of times especially things
that are socially driven you don't
necessarily want to have the
monetization gun to your head right um
from the jump you want the time to
really just deliver value um and then
figure things out along the way I know a
very powerful tool that a lot of people
use is a premium premium model um and
leading with the free model and telling
people um what you're going to be
charging for in the future I think is a
pretty winning Solution that's what
we're doing here at impact Theory phase
one is all about content it's all about
free content um and while we don't have
any um plans to charge for the content
in the future we do have a whole slew of
merchandising that we're going to be
working on that'll be tied to the
content that we're releasing and not
just the social content by the way the
social content for us is is really sort
of the minor Point um we're looking at
traditional content um and and building
an ecosystem around that um and so when
that's ready then you know we'll be
going out with that but we know that we
have a very long Runway where we don't
need to monetize and so we can begin to
get a read on what people like what
they're responding to without the need
to do that um so we're we're not
scrambling there's no sense of panic uh
we can just continue to put out great
stuff so if you guys stay at your jobs
and that's funding that then you've
really got the time to figure out what's
working what people are responding to am
I right do you need an algorithm Am I
Wrong can you throw the human capital at
it um those are going to be the things
that you guys will find out because you
should be able to be like those first
seven employees right so what does it
look like how many um interests can you
guys handle each um what is that scale
um who's the best at it right can one of
you handle six seven um interest and one
of you can only handle two three and you
begin to get a sense of what the spread
is um and then you know the level of
passion and energy what kind of
employees who shines at it uh why they
shine at it so you know the types of
people that you're looking for all right
we only have 10 minutes left so I'm
going to burn through a few more
questions here what's the best way to
grow the community user base um that one
is easy deliver value that's it deliver
value deliver value social media is IR
thing it's IR thing we live in such a
unique and amazing time where if you're
delivering value you can build a
community so one of the things you guys
could be doing is putting out a YouTube
show or doing Facebook lives where you
give examples of categories you're going
to be diving into what are your top
three top five top 10 whatever you'll
have to figure out um you know how much
bandwidth you guys have but putting out
a daily digest of that so people can see
what it's like um finding influencers
who really believe in your content um
and even doing like guest appearances
going on somebody else's show uh or
podcast or Facebook page and giving them
a five to 10 minute daily digest do a
month on an influencer's account um and
you know all you're asking is for
linkbacks um that way people are
beginning to be aware of what you guys
are doing the value that you're
providing and because you're creating
content there's going to be a lot of
people that will do that if the content
is good right so I get contacted all the
time by um major publications of success
Inc um Thrive to write for them and as
long as the content is good uh they will
then put that out because for them it's
free content right they're not paying me
but for me it's amazing because I'm
building credibility as uh a voice out
in the industry it's new eyeballs it's
bringing people back to impact Theory so
um since you guys are in the content
creation game that's going to be exactly
how you build your community because if
you can't build your community by giving
it away in fact this is important if you
can't build your community by giving it
away it's not
real okay let that one sink in if you
can't build your community by giving it
away it's not real all right so you're
certainly never going to be able to
charge for it uh Logistics behind
advertisements um that's not as
universal as I would like it I'm
actually not the right person to answer
that question anyway um so in fact if
anybody out there has um done a lot of
um ad stuff we chose not to do that here
at impact Theory so we didn't have to
dive into that one um where should we
start fund the company PR New York Mars
I like that Mars um it doesn't matter it
doesn't matter so just like to point out
that um Berkshire Hathaway is in Omaha
Nebraska I don't know why anybody ever
goes to Omaha Nebraska and yet they
built one of the largest companies in
the world um it doesn't matter when um
Microsoft was starting out in Seattle
man most people thought Seattle um was a
state they didn't even know much about
it or Washington uh and they've turned
it into something so um it really really
does come down to um going where you
want to be so that's a big thing where
do you have connections um and where can
you hire the right people so um there's
a reason that people aggregate in um
Silicon Valley because you're you're
able to find um amazing technological
Talent up there um but if you don't have
that problem from a hiring perspective
then it it matters a lot less um funding
it really that doesn't matter it's
somebody that believes in you and that
Tech checks all the boxes that we were
talking about before
um should we limit users on their
interests in the beginning or should we
only Implement that rule uh once we add
some additional functionality I think
the um the honest answer is that you're
going to have to limit users because you
guys are only going to be able to cover
so much with you as a seven employees
I'm assuming that you don't have a lot
of capital to throw at this uh so yes
you're going to limit that um do we need
to patent our idea almost certainly not
can you patent the idea almost certainly
not um usually patents you can only get
if there is a process involved you're
doing something in a unique way um that
somebody would be copying you um but the
idea of boiling things down to their
Essence and putting it out there um
obviously there's a lot of people doing
that so I don't think there's anything
to patent there um and I can't imagine
that simply turning it into a recording
is going to give you something
patentable full disclosure I am not a
patent attorney uh but I will tell you
at Quest we decided not to go down the
patent path because it's actually very
difficult um to get things patented and
it's all process driven uh you have to
be doing something in a very unique way
um and so there certainly are like in in
high tech like you might be able to
patent your algorithm if you guys come
up with an algorithm that you could
probably patent um but then you may be
better off actually keeping that hidden
from people and using it as a trade
secret rather than something that you
have a patent on um that's something to
consider uh how do we make sure that we
aren't crushed by CNN New York Times Etc
uh you don't so you're getting into a
business that if they really see the
value in that and they have a huge
Community um then they could come in and
Crush you but I would say that having
that Community showing that you're
delivering value um and just out
hustling those guys is really the right
answer and to be honest I don't think
these guys are are going to play that
game um at least not as it's outlined
here I don't think they would ever throw
human capital at this um so you're um
your bigger concern is is Facebook um
you know Facebook is essentially doing
what you're doing they take the universe
of people that um are looking at
something and based on what's getting
shared they um say hey this piece of
content in this interest that you have
said you have um is uh it's got some
heat behind it so it's probably
something that we should open up so if
they typically show I think 1 to 3% or
something uh of the people who follow
you they might open that up to 10 12 20
uh whatever depending on how much U
juice it has like when our clip uh with
Simon sck went viral you could just
literally see them opening up the um the
throttle there and it just it was crazy
uh but that's them algorithmically doing
that um so yeah I think that's um that's
really where the juice is um how do you
prepare for rapid growth H I would say
right now that's really not the thing
that you guys should be concerned with
um rapid growth is the ways you protect
yourselves from that are having uh a
belief system something that you hire
against so that your company culture
stay strong because company culture is
the thing that is most dramatically
affected um by rapid growth and so that
that's something you want to make sure
that you know who you are what your
company Mission is what you guys stand
for the types of people that you want to
hire that's just critical critical and
when given a choice between um someone
with a an amazing skill set but they're
not a cultural fit and somebody who's a
cultural fit and can be taught and
that's critical they have to show a
propensity for learning fast but if they
can learn I'd rather have to teach them
um than have somebody that is amazing
but they just create Strife within the
organization that's critical um and that
plays really well in the beginning as
you get um farther along then you really
really have to hold out for people that
both have experience um and our cultural
fits both are really really critical I
learned that list in the hard way I held
on way too long to culture without
recognizing the need for people that
just really have a skill set uh
and and when you're in a rapid growth
phase that's something um that's just
absolutely absolutely critical um so I
think we're about out a time here so I
will just say first of all um guys at um
Iris thank you so much for submitting
and if you guys want to learn more about
this you can go to get
iris. that's get
iris. iio uh you can also email them at
contactget
iris. um and you can go see right now
they have a web page up a landing page
uh you can check that out see what
they're up to by all means engage with
them socially find out what they're up
to um help them brainstorm if you guys
have ideas if you have feedback for them
be absolutely incredible to give that uh
and if you have a company that you want
to have featured here on uh on Startup
Theory I will remember that on Startup
Theory uh please submit it go to connect
at impact theory.com that's connect
impact theory.com we will send you a
question here fill that out send that
back and we will feature your company
here on Startup Theory so thank you guys
so much for joining us here on this very
first episode the beta version of
startup theory if you will and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care peace
out